



















































































The Consumer Confidence Survey® reflects prevailing business conditions and likely developments for the months ahead. This monthly report details consumer attitudes, buying intentions, vacation plans, and consumer expectations for inflation, stock prices, and interest rates. Data are available by age, income, 9 regions, and top 8 states.

DOWNLOAD ADDITIONAL ASSETS



Updated: Tuesday, July 30, 2024



The Conference Board Consumer Confidence Index® rose in July to 100.3 (1985=100), from a downwardly revised 97.8 in June. The Present Situation Index—based on consumers’ assessment of current business and labor market conditions—declined to 133.6 from 135.3 last month. Meanwhile, the Expectations Index—based on consumers’ short-term outlook for income, business, and labor market conditions—improved in July to 78.2. That’s up from 72.8 in June but still below 80 (the threshold which usually signals a recession ahead). The cutoff date for the preliminary results was July 22, 2024.

“Confidence increased in July, but not enough to break free of the narrow range that has prevailed over the past two years,” said Dana M. Peterson, Chief Economist at The Conference Board. “Even though consumers remain relatively positive about the labor market, they still appear to be concerned about elevated prices and interest rates, and uncertainty about the future; things that may not improve until next year.”

“Compared to last month, consumers were somewhat less pessimistic about the future. Expectations for future income improved slightly, but consumers remained generally negative about business and employment conditions ahead. Meanwhile, consumers were a bit less positive about current labor and business conditions. Potentially, smaller monthly job additions are weighing on consumers’ assessment of current job availability: while still quite strong, consumers’ assessment of the current labor market situation declined to its lowest level since March 2021.”

“In July, confidence improved among consumers under 35 and those 55 and older; only the 35-54 age group saw a decline. On a six-month moving average basis, confidence remained the highest among consumers under 35. On a month-over-month basis, no clear pattern emerged in terms of income groups. On a six-month moving average basis, consumers making over $100K were the most confident, but the gap with other groups narrowed.”



Peterson added: “The proportion of consumers predicting a forthcoming recession ticked up in July but remains well below the 2023 peak. Consumers’ assessments of their Family’s Financial Situation—both currently and over the next six months—was less positive. Indeed, assessments of familial finances have deteriorated continuously since the beginning of 2024.” (These measures are not included in calculating the Consumer Confidence Index®.)

Average 12-month inflation expectations remained stable at 5.4 percent in July, compared to a peak of 7.9 percent reported in 2022. The share of consumers expecting higher interest rates over the next 12 months dropped for the second month in a row to 50.3 percent—the lowest since February 2024. Meanwhile, consumers were positive about the stock market, with 49.1 percent expecting stock prices to increase over the year ahead (the highest share since March), 23.5 percent expecting a decrease, and 27.4 percent expecting no change.

July’s write-in responses showed that elevated prices, especially for food and groceries, and inflation (the rate of change in prices), remain the key drivers of consumers’ views of the economy, followed by the US political situation and the labor market. Mentions about the forthcoming elections increased, although the share of respondents believing the 2024 election would impact the economy was lower than write-ins from July 2016.

On a six-month moving average basis, purchasing plans for homes fell to a 12-year low. While buying plans for cars were little changed, buying plans for most big-ticket appliances increased slightly. Additionally, more consumers reported plans to buy a smartphone or laptop/PC in the next six months.

Based on a supplemental question, planned spending on services appeared weaker in July 2024 than in July 2023. Consumers said they plan to spend less over the next six months on many discretionary items, including gambling, amusement parks, and personal travel. They also plan to purchase less expensive services—for example, streaming instead of going to the movies. The planned reduction in services spending was across the board, but consumers continued to prioritize non-discretionary expenditures like healthcare and motor vehicle services.

Present Situation

Consumers’ assessment of current business conditions was slightly less positive in July.

Consumers’ appraisal of the labor market deteriorated in July.



Expectations Six Months Hence          

Consumers were more optimistic about the short-term business conditions outlook in July.

Consumers’ assessment of the short-term labor market outlook was less negative in July.

Consumers’ assessment of their short-term income prospects was less pessimistic in July.

Assessment of Family Finances and Recession Risk







Consumers planned to spend less on discretionary services over the next six months.



The monthly Consumer Confidence Survey®, based on an online sample, is conducted for The Conference Board by Toluna, a technology company that delivers real-time consumer insights and market research through its innovative technology, expertise, and panel of over 36 million consumers. The cutoff date for the preliminary results was July 22.

Source: July 2024 Consumer Confidence Survey®

The Conference Board

The Conference Board publishes the Consumer Confidence Index® at 10 a.m. ET on the last Tuesday of every month. Subscription information and the technical notes to this series are available on The Conference Board website: https://www.conference-board.org/data/consumerdata.cfm.

About The Conference Board

The Conference Board is the member-driven think tank that delivers Trusted Insights for What’s Ahead™. Founded in 1916, we are a non-partisan, not-for-profit entity holding 501 (c) (3) tax-exempt status in the United States. ConferenceBoard.org.      



The next release is Tuesday, August 27th at 10 AM ET.

For further information contact:

Jonathan Liu at +732.991.1754 JLiu@tcb.org

Joseph DiBlasi at +781.308.7935 JDiBlasi@tcb.org

© The Conference Board 2024. All data contained in this table are protected by United States and international copyright laws. The data displayed are provided for informational purposes only and may only be accessed, reviewed, and/or used in accordance with, and the permission of, The Conference Board consistent with a subscriber or license agreement and the Terms of Use displayed on our website at www.conference-board.org. The data and analysis contained herein may not be used, redistributed, published, or posted by any means without express written permission from The Conference Board.

COPYRIGHT TERMS OF USE All material on Our Sites are protected by United States and international copyright laws. You must abide by all copyright notices and restrictions contained in Our Sites. You may not reproduce, distribute (in any form including over any local area or other network or service), display, perform, create derivative works of, sell, license, extract for use in a database, or otherwise use any materials (including computer programs and other code) on Our Sites ("Site Material"), except that you may download Site Material in the form of one machine readable copy that you will use only for personal, noncommercial purposes, and only if you do not alter Site Material or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice displayed on the Site Material. If you are a subscriber to any of the services offered on Our Sites, you may be permitted to use Site Material, according to the terms of your subscription agreement.

Trademarks "THE CONFERENCE BOARD," the TORCH LOGO, "CONSUMER CONFIDENCE SURVEY", "CONSUMER CONFIDENCE INDEX", and other logos, indicia and trademarks featured on Our Sites are trademarks owned by The Conference Board, Inc. in the United States and other countries ("Our Trademarks").

You may not use Our Trademarks in connection with any product or service that does not belong to us nor in any manner that is likely to cause confusion among users about whether The Conference Board is the source, sponsor, or endorser of the product or service, nor in any manner that disparages or discredits us.

With graph and summary table

July 30, 2024

Underlying detail, diffusion indexes, components, contributions and graphs

July 30, 2024

Connect and be informed about this topic through webcasts, virtual events and conferences

PRESS RELEASE

US Consumer Confidence Still Mixed in July

July 30, 2024

BRIEF

June CPI data support Fed rate cuts later this year

July 11, 2024

PRESS RELEASE

US Consumer Confidence Weakens Slightly in June

June 25, 2024

PRESS RELEASE

US Consumer Confidence Rose in May

May 28, 2024

PRESS RELEASE

US Consumer Confidence Retreats in April

April 30, 2024

PRESS RELEASE

US Consumer Confidence Little Changed in March

March 26, 2024

Your centralized, one-stop portal for accessing and exporting The Conference Board global suite of monthly and quarterly economic data. Get up to speed on critical trends—anytime, anywhere—with customizable real-time datasets.

All release times displayed are Eastern Time

CHARTS

In June*, consumer confidence slipped somewhat even as some spending categories continue to see growth.





































VIDEO

Despite the slight increase this month, consumers remain worried about the future and are less happy about the present.

Connect and be informed about this topic through webcasts, virtual events and conferences

What’s eating the consumer? A look at consumer confidence



Consumer Behaviors and Business Opportunities in the COVID-19 Era



















US Consumer Confidence Survey

July 30, 2024 | Brief

Higher Interest Rates Will Force Consumers to Be More Frugal

March 07, 2024 | Quick Take

How Will High Gas Prices Affect US Transportation Choices?

June 14, 2022 | Brief

ESG Alert: Nine Keys to Telling Your Sustainability Story Authentically and Effectively; t…

July 23, 2021 | Newsletters & Alerts

Economy Watch: Economic Series Report September 2020

September 16, 2020 | Report

The Conference Board® Global Consumer Confidence Survey Q2 2020: Gulf Region

August 31, 2020 | Brief

C-Suite Perspectives

The State of the Economy for July 2024

July 30, 2024

CEO Insight Minute: Should We Celebrate July’s Increase in Consumer Confidence?

July 30, 2024

C-Suite Perspectives

The State of the Economy for June 2024

June 25, 2024

C-Suite Perspectives

The State of the Economy for May 2024

May 28, 2024

C-Suite Perspectives

The State of the Economy for April 2024

April 30, 2024

C-Suite Perspectives

The State of the Economy for March 2024

March 26, 2024











