Resources and updates on NAR’s settlement agreement related to broker commissions.

Resources and updates on NAR’s settlement agreement related to broker commissions.

+1.3%

In July 2024, existing-home sales improved, breaking a streak of four consecutive monthly declines.

Three out of four major U.S. regions registered sales increases while the Midwest remained steady. Year-over-year, sales rose in the Northeast and West but retreated in the Midwest and South.

"Despite the modest gain, home sales are still sluggish," said NAR Chief Economist Lawrence Yun. "But consumers are definitely seeing more choices, and affordability is improving due to lower interest rates."

The Existing-Home Sales data measures sales and prices of existing single-family homes for the nation overall, and gives breakdowns for the West, Midwest, South, and Northeast regions of the country. These figures include condos and co-ops, in addition to single-family homes.

Existing-Home Sales for August 2024 will be released on Thursday, September 19, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. Eastern.

Existing Home Sales data are provided by NAR solely for use as a reference. No part of this data may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, transmitted or redistributed in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, without NAR's prior written consent for those who are not members of NAR.

Members of the media who need copies of previous months' existing-home sales news releases can contact the NAR media communications team at 202-383-7515.

Citation guidelines for NAR research and statistics

Expand all

Current sales rates, actual totals and median prices by month going back 12 months. Annual totals for three years. Includes all existing-home sales — single-family, condos and co-ops — rolled into monthly and annual totals. This file contains figures for the nation and four regions. It does not contain breakouts.

Existing-Home Sales Overview (PDF: 36 KB)

Map of Existing-Home Sales Regions

Figures for the nation only — includes total existing-home sales, single-family sales and condo/co-op sales seasonally adjusted and actual. Months supply by category also included. Median and average sales prices for all existing-home sales, for single-family sales and for condo-co-op sales.

Total Sales With Breakouts of Single-family and Condo/Co-op (PDF: 30 KB)

Map of Existing-Home Sales Regions

Current single-family existing-home sales rates, actual totals and median prices by month for 12 months. Annual totals for three years. Figures for the nation and four regions.

Single-Family Only (PDF: 35 KB)

Map of Existing-Home Sales Regions

Current condo and co-op sales rates, actual totals and median prices by month for 12 months. Annual totals for three years. Figures for the nation and four regions.

Condo/Co-op Only (PDF: 35 KB)

Map of Existing-Home Sales Regions

Average (Mean) Price (PDF: 174 KB)

Disclaimer: The average price table is NAR's best estimate. Unlike the median home price, the average home price is influenced by outliers. Due to rapid price gains in recent years and more sales at the very high end, there is less reliability associated with the average price. There is a break in the average price between 2019 and 2020, and therefore should not be compared. A newer methodology was applied in 2020 to better account for outliers of high-priced homes.

Historical data can be purchased in the REALTOR® Store(link is external).

If you have questions about this data, please email them to data@nar.realtor(link sends e-mail).

Existing-Home Sales for August 2024 will be released on Thursday, September 19, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. Eastern.

NAR Media Communications issues a news release close to mid-month with the latest existing-home sales figures. The releases include analysis and quotes by NAR's Chief Economist Lawrence Yun regarding the sales volume, prices, inventory and interest rates.

NAR Research Data Release Dates